---
layout: post
title: "Castle Project"
date: 2008-05-09 03:04
comments: false
---

For the last couple of weeks I have been digging through a bunch of new projects/concepts with the hope of using some new (to me) things in a couple application samples/prototypes I am itching to build. One of the projects I have been spending a lot of time with recently is the "Castle Project":http://castleproject.org.

From the site:

bq. Castle is an open source project for .net that aspires to simplify the development of enterprise and web applications. Offering a set of tools (working together or independently) and integration with others open source projects, Castle helps you get more done with less code and in less time.

For the longest time, I mistakenly assumed Castle was just "Monorail":http://www.castleproject.org/monorail/index.html. I was very wrong. There is a lot of great things in this project that you can easily leverage when building your own solutions...even if you could care less about MVC/Monrail.

My Favorites:

* *"ActiveRecord":http://castleproject.org/activerecord/index.html* "_The enterprise data mapping pattern implemented using NHibernate_". In a nutshell it makes the power of NHibernate extremly accessible with almost zero effort.
* *"Windsor Container":http://castleproject.org/container/index.html* Entperise grade inversion of control container. I have written a lot of plugin/extensibility code in the last couple of years which could have dramatically simplified and reduced with Windsor.
* *"Validators":http://castleproject.org/components/validator/index.html* A light weight validation framework. There is a nice "example of integrating":http://blog.codeville.net/2008/04/ it with "LiveValidation":http://www.livevalidation.com/.

There is actually quite a bit more there as well. The funny thing is I have been using Castle's updated version of "NVelocity":http://www.castleproject.org/others/nvelocity/index.html for quite a while and never really bothered to look around much until recently. If you are unfamiliar with the project, I definitely recommend taking a peak. I am sure you will find something which will help you on a future project.
