---
layout: post
title: "eBay Bloggers Holiday Charity Challenge"
date: 2008-12-01 01:35
comments: false
---

Before you read the rest of this post, quickly look around your office and do a quick count on the number of usable gadgets and gizmos you have not touched in more than three months? I will wait....

Wow, quite a few things huh? What to do with all of this stuff?

An obvious and easy answer is "eBay":http://ebay.com it.

I am definitely not the blog "meme":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meme type of person. However, I am sure I am not the only person in this position. I am hoping to leverage the power of the web to not only help myself, but also do some good for others. So here is the challenge.

*_<u>Find at least one gadget, gizmo, book, toy, etc that you are no longer using, list it on eBay, and donate a percentage of the proceeds to charity.</u>_*

h3. Here are my proposed rules:

1. Find something you are not using and sell it between now and December 25th 2008.

2. Donate a percentage of that sale to charity.

3. Tell others to do the same.

4. (optional) Send me an email at "scottwater+ebhcc@gmail.com":mailto:scottwater+ebhcc@gmail.com with the amount you donated. At the end of the month I will list (anonymously if you wish) the amount raised.

h3. For those still needing more info, a quick FAQ:

*How much do I have to donate?*
This is your discretion. Only you know what level you are comfortable with. I am personally going to donate 25%.

*Do I have to use eBay?*
Of course not. If you would rather use another service, please do so.

*Where should I make my donation?* 
Whatever moves you. I am a big fan of "Alex's Lemonade Stand":http://www.alexslemonade.org/ and the "JimmyV Fund":http://www.jimmyv.org/. At this time of year you can also walk into just about any church and find a giving tree with requests by needy families in your neighborhood.

*I don't have anything to donate?*
Seriously, look harder. Open a box or two. If not, feel free to pick a charity and send them something.

*I don't have anything to donate and cash is tight this year?*
No worries, perhaps next year. If you have a blog, some other public outlet (twitter) or perhaps an internal alias at work, you can help by encouraging others.

*I already donated plenty this year?*
No worries, perhaps next year. Then again, maybe you could earmark November and December's Google ads payment? What were you really going to buy for $5 anyway.

*The economy is in the crapper. Shouldn't I be saving?*
Yes, you should be saving. However, I assure you, come this time next year no matter how bad the economy is, you won't miss $100. Skip Starbucks for a week or two and we can call it even.

*What do you get from this?*
A smile, you can have one too.

*What are you selling on eBay?*

* "1.25 GHZ Mac Mini":http://cgi.ebay.com/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&amp;item=150313430715
* "IOGEAR GCS84A 4-Port PS/2 KVM Switch":http://cgi.ebay.com/IOGEAR-GCS84A-4-Port-PS-2-KVM-Switch-NO-RESERVE_W0QQitemZ150313642547QQihZ005QQcategoryZ45341QQssPageNameZWDVWQQrdZ1QQcmdZViewItem
* "MiniViev III USB KVMP Switch Kit w/Cables":http://cgi.ebay.com/MiniViev-III-USB-KVMP-Switch-Kit-w-Cables-NO-RESERVE_W0QQitemZ150313647189QQihZ005QQcategoryZ45341QQssPageNameZWDVWQQrdZ1QQcmdZViewItem
* "iPhone 8GB 2g":http://cgi.ebay.com/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&amp;item=150313714054&amp;ssPageName=ADME:L:LCA:US:1123
* "Apple Wireless Keyboard":http://cgi.ebay.com/Apple-Wireless-Keyboard-MB167LL-A-Bluetooth-NO-Reserve_W0QQitemZ150313703743QQihZ005QQcategoryZ25444QQssPageNameZWDVWQQrdZ1QQcmdZViewItem
* "Mac Office 2008":http://cgi.ebay.com/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&amp;item=150313702477&amp;ssPageName=ADME:L:LCA:US:1123
* "mStand":http://cgi.ebay.com/Mstand-Laptop-Stand-By-Rain-Design-NO-Reserve_W0QQitemZ150313701108QQihZ005QQcategoryZ4601QQssPageNameZWDVWQQrdZ1QQcmdZViewItem
