---
layout: post
title: "Alex's Lemonade"
date: 2008-05-08 14:54
comments: false
---

A couple of weeks ago, I got an invitation to my college roommate's son's first birthday. Normally, that would not be worthy of a blog post, but there was something in the card I was not expecting.

Inside the card, was a piece of paper with the following:

bq. In lieu of gifts for **** first birthday, we are asking our guests to make a donation to Alex's Lemonade Stand to help fight against childhood cancer.

*"About Alex's Lemonade Stand":http://www.alexslemonade.org/*

bq. In 2000, a 4 year old cancer patient named Alexandra "Alex" Scott announced a seemingly simple idea -she was holding a lemonade stand to raise money to help "her doctors" find a cure for kids with cancer. The idea was put into action by Alex and her older brother, Patrick, when they set up the first "Alex's Lemonade Stand for Childhood Cancer" on their front lawn in July of 2000.

bq. For the next four years, despite her deteriorating health, Alex held an annual lemonade stand to raise money for childhood cancer research. Following her inspirational example, thousands of lemonade stands and other fundraising events have been held across the country by children, schools, businesses, and organizations, all to benefit Alex's Lemonade Stand Foundation for childhood cancer. On August 1st, 2004, Alex died peacefully at the age of 8 -- she had raised over $1 million for childhood cancer research in her short lifetime.

bq. I had actually read about Alex's Lemonade stand in the past, but for whatever reason never made a donation. In the last couple of years, we have attended many children's birthday parties. All have been fun celebrations, but this will be first where we are not only celebrating another year of life for the birthday boy, but also helping another child hopefully live another year.

bq. Having a 10 month old daughter certainly makes this particularly charity stand out, but there are lots of other great charities out there. Do yourself a favor, take a couple of minutes and make a quick donation. It will be a great way to start your morning.
