---
layout: post
title: "The Obligation"
date: 2009-12-30 18:47
comments: false
---

In "Seth Godin's":http://sethgodin.typepad.com/ "Tribes":http://bit.ly/5mCifE, one particular section really struck a cord with me and I have been thinking about it just about every day for a couple of weeks now.

bq. Not too far from us, a few blocks away, there are kids without enough to eat and without parents who care. A little further away, hours by plane, are people unable to reach their goals because they live in a community that just doesn't have the infrastructure to support them. A bit further away are people being brutally persecuted by their governments. And the world is filled with people who can't go to high school, never mind college, and who certainly can't spend their time focused on whether or not they get a good parking space at work.

bq. And so, the obligation: don't settle.

bq. To have all these advantages, all this momentum, all these opportunities and then settle for mediocre and then defend the status quo and then worry about corporate politics - what a waste.

bq. Flynn Berry wrote that you should never use the word "opportunity." It's not an opportunity, it's an obligation.

bq. I don't think we have any choice. I think we have an obligation to change the rules, to raise the bar, to play a different game, and to play it better than anyone has any right to believe is possible.

If you can read this post, I am 99.9999% sure you are in the obligated bucket.

Here's to a great 2010 and fulfilling those obligations.
