---
layout: post
title: "Watching the Funq"
date: 2009-02-09 11:43
comments: false
---

"Speaking of IofC's":http://scottw.com/code/iofc-on-azure/, I have been enjoying watching "Daniel Cazzulino's":http://www.clariusconsulting.net/blogs/kzu/ "video series":http://www.clariusconsulting.net/blogs/kzu/archive/2009/02/02/116399.aspx on "Funq":http://code.google.com/p/funq/.

bq. _I'm planning to record a series of screencasts which will serve as walk-throughs on how to apply TDD on a practical project consisting in building a full-featured and high-performance DI container which has two very explicit goal: minimalistic design and small footprint._

As I mentioned before, I still don't have the expertise to speak with authority on .NET Inversion of Control containers/components. However, even if you could care less about IofC, there are some compelling reason to watch the video series:

# Lambda's - It is obvious Daniel groks and thinks in Lambda (see Moq as well). They are a very powerful addition to the .NET family and after watching this video series I am just scratching the surface on their usage.
# TDD - similar to IofC, I am not an expert on TDD, but I believe Daniel is doing a great service to the community by not only publishing a series on building an IofC container, but doing via TDD the entire way. It would have been very easy for him to just walk through the code and throw it over the way. Big kudos to Daniel on this one.
# And of course, if you care at all about IofC or want to see what all the fuss is about, you should pick up quite a bit while watching the series.
