---
layout: post
title: "Sinatra Jekyll Server"
date: 2010-09-20 00:46
comments: false
---

My blog is currently hosted on the excellent "Heroku":http://heroku.com platform and I use "Jekyll":http://jekyllrb.com/ to generate my site's content. For a variety of reasons[1], I am planning on moving off of Jekyll and onto something I have been building on the side. 

In preparation for this move, I needed to switch the "Heroku stack":http://docs.heroku.com/stack from 1.8.6 to at least 1.8.7. However, the rack component I had been previously using ("Rack-Jekyll":http://github.com/bry4n/rack-jekyll) had an inner dependency I did not need which was causing the stack change to fail[2]. My first reaction was to tweak to the Rack-Jekyll source. However, my own needs are actually much simpler than Rack-Jekyll's. In addition, everything I need to host this site on Heroku with Jekyll is currently handled extremely well by Sinatra:

# Write static files to the browser
# Set proper status codes

What I ended up with I creatively named, "SinatraJekyll":http://gist.github.com/587274, is listed below:

<pre><code class="ruby">
require 'sinatra/base'

class SinatraJekyll < Sinatra::Base  

  get /.+/ do
    send_sinatra_file(request.path) {404}
  end

  not_found do
    send_sinatra_file('404.html') {"Sorry, I cannot find #{request.path}"}
  end

  def send_sinatra_file(path, &missing_file_block)
    file_path = File.join(File.dirname(__FILE__), '_site',  path)
    file_path = File.join(file_path, 'index.html') unless file_path =~ /\.[a-z]+$/i  
    File.exist?(file_path) ? send_file(file_path) : missing_file_block.call
  end

end
</code></pre>

As you can see there is not much too it, but it seems to be working very well. I thought about creating a repository for it, but as it stands it is just a single file with less than 20 lines so a "gist":http://gist.github.com/587274 seems like the best home for now. 

If you have a feedback and/or suggestions on the code, please let me know.

fn1. Really it boils down to I have an insatiable need to re-do/re-write this blog every year.

fn2. Rack-Jekyll will actually build the Jekyll site (if necessary). Because of this, it has a dependency on Jekyll, which has a dependency on Liquid. For whatever reason, the most recent version of Liquid has a dependency on a version of RubyGems (1.3.7) which is not available on Heroku at this time. It appears all the parties know about the issue(s) and fixes are on the way. I could have very likely used an older version of one or more of the gems and everything would have been OK....but what's the fun in doing that. :)
