---
layout: post
title: "When Factory Girls Kill"
date: 2011-04-05 13:30
comments: false
---

Keeping with my goal of feeding Google the crazy things which cost me hours in my day...

I had a simple association defined in my "factory_girl":https://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_girl factories file: 

<pre><code class="ruby">
Factory.define :site do |s|
  # most removed 
  s.user Factory.build(:user)
end
</code></pre>

Did you catch the bug? Neither did I. 

This setup had worked fine for a couple of weeks. This morning I ran rake db:drop and attempted to recreate my developer database from scratch and I was greeting with a long error message related to the users table not existing. 

Thankfully the backtrace mentioned factory_girl, so I had a good idea where to start. 

Turns out, I had a bit of a chicken and egg going on. 

I had added the factory above after I had created both my site and a user tables to the database and did not think too much about it. When I ran my migrations and everything just worked.

However, once I dropped the table and the code in this factory was loaded all hell broke loose since Factory.build(:user) was executed right away. The fix is subtle and makes a lot of sense:

<pre><code class="ruby">
Factory.define :site do |s|
  # most removed 
  s.user {Factory.build(:user)}
end
</code></pre>

By wrapping Factory.build(:user) in a block it is no longer executed until it is needed, which in my case is well after the user table is created. 

