---
layout: post
title: "CarrierWave and Ruby 1.9.2 and Other Tips"
date: 2011-03-31 14:12
comments: false
---

I spent some time yesterday with the excellent "CarrierWave":https://github.com/jnicklas/carrierwave gem. 

bq. This gem provides a simple and extremely flexible way to upload files from Ruby applications. It works well with Rack based web applications, such as Ruby on Rails.

Everything was going great until I wired up "RMagick":https://github.com/rmagick/rmagick to enforce some constraints on the image size. Once RMagick was running, anytime I uploaded an image Ruby would segfault and kill the webrick process. 

I thought there might be an issue with my ImageMagick install, so I opened up the rails console and manually invoked the uploader and it worked as expected. I little searching around lead me to this "post on StackOverflow":http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2838307/why-is-this-rmagick-call-generating-a-segmentation-fault. 

Assuming you are using Homebrew, you can resolve this issue with: 

<pre><code class="bash">
brew remove imagemagick
rm -rf `brew --cache imagemagick`
brew install -f imagemagick --disable-openmp
</code></pre>

A couple interesting tips and suggestions on CarrierWave:

* Check out the "RailsCast on CarrierWave":http://railscasts.com/episodes/253-carrierwave-file-uploads screencast. It is a great quick overview and provides enough info to get you up and running in a couple of minutes. 
* To remove an attachment, just include a checkbox with :remove_attribute_name in your form. 
* Don't forget to add things like :remove_attribute_name and :attribute_name_cache to your attr_accessible. I lost about 30 minutes debugging because I forgot to make this change. 

